---
layout: post
title: Art of Living
subtitle: Experience and takeaways!
tags: [mentalHealth]
comments: true
mathjax: true
author: Yours Truly
---

I attended the Happiness course brought to you by Art of Living. For those of you who dont know about Art of Living, its a non-profit organisation that is dedicated to social and humanitarian work around the world, mainly teaching people the _art of living_. It has a multitude of courses for people suffering through different kinds of problems in life. For example: rehabilitation for convicts, war veterans, natural calamities trauma, anxiety etc. 

#### WHY did I end up at this course?
No, its not like I am unhappy with life. I am just bored. Being an overthinker makes you quite serious about life and I was slightly worried if this habit would make me a stupid person when I get older (again I shouldnt even be thinking about this but we are past that :P). Also, I wanted to get into meditation as my mind is not that strong when it comes to emotional strength. People around me can greatly influence my actions and thoughts and I didnt want to be a TV where the remote is being held by different people at different points of my life. 

#### Expectations?
Probably a structure in which I can do meditations. Thats pretty much it. I am desensitivized to the happiness word and I feel life is a sine wave where things can never be good or bad for a long time. We keep oscillating. 

#### What actually happened?
3 days. 3-4-4 hours of class. Two teachers (husband wife, both certified teachers at AoL, Bangalore). 

1. [7 layers of existence](https://www.artofliving.org/in-en/levels-existence)
2. [5 Art of Living principles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=laZ6VgYfRUs)
	1. Dont see intentions behind other people's mistakes; since mistakes are mistakes.
	2. Accept people and situations as they are. 
	3. Opposites are complementary to one another and enhance each other.
	4. Dont be a football of other peoples opinions since opinions are never constant. 
	5. The present moment is inevitable.
3. [Sudarshan Kriya](https://www.artofliving.org/in-en/about-us/sudarshan-kriya/what-is-sudarshan-kriya)
	1. Its basically an intentional rhythmic form of breathing exercises where you oscillate between long breaths, medium breaths and ultra shorts high speed breaths. 
	2. At the end of it all, your hands feel tingly and you might have a slight headache in some cases. 
	3. Mainly your mind feels quite at ease like someone has disconnected the sound system and its complete silence. 
4. [Yoga nidra](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zLJu3wQA1Ko)
	1. Something for sleeping. Move your consciousness to various part of the bodies starting from the tip of your foot all the way up your head. 
	2. Quite relaxing and helps you sleep. 

Please note that I dont fully support Sudarshan Kriya and neither do I endorse it since I still have my reservations regarding what it actually does to the body. I will probably update this blog once I read some of the research papers behind it and link them here. 

#### Key takeaways

- I am probably too young for a happiness course. Sad but true.
- Everything exists in the mind. Love, hurt, jealously, anger, fear, opinions, regret. The more you hold on to things, the more it hurts. But the person due to which we feel these things wont have even a clue. 
- Accept. People and situations as they are. This shouldnt hint inaction. It just means that acceptance is step 1. Step 2,3 and so on can be defined properly if acceptance is done. 
- Normal everyday people around us are going through so much. They survive and even thrive in such difficult circumstances. Not to say my problems are smaller but its good for perspective. Knowing this helps us to be kind to everyone we meet. 
- Needs and responsibilities of your life needs some thought. If _needs > responsibilities_ the quality of life isn't that great. If responsibilities are more, you feel happy once you do your best. Needs once met give way to more needs. As humans, we will always have more needs and we would always want to pass up responsibilities but having responsibilities is a beautiful thing (obviously dont get burned out. )
- Never say yes to a potluck if you dont know how to cook. RUN. 
- SMILE. Fake it till you actually get it. Smile is a superpower. 
- Always look people in the eyes (while talking obviously, dont be creepy). The eyes often have multiple stories to tell. You will find GOD in almost everyone if you see them in the eyes and deeply listen to what they say. 
- I "feel" a lot of things mentioned in the course about believing in Guruji or some higher power leads to manifestation. Things go your way if you have a strong why to keep moving forward. If your heart truly wants the end goal, your problems melt away one by one as if an unseen force is helping you (like the patronus of snape, oh I wish I had something like that in life. I would have made it choose between science, commerce, arts and other life changing decisions.).
- Happiness is a **choice**. Happiness shouldnt be equated to the achievement of a milestone. I will be happy when -----. Or I will be happy if --------. Happiness is a conscious choice you make everyday (I know it sounds fortune cookie but its one thing to hear it and another to understand. I havent understood it yet :P)

#### Conclusion
Try it once. You dont have to wait for life to get weird. You meet some amazing people with a lot of interesting stories. You get an atmosphere of peace and safety. I even danced so it felt really nice. Yes I have also seen things like Wild Wild Country where cults are criticised but whats the point of living life so seriously. 

F*ck it we ball. 

Peace!
