---
layout: post
title: Spiral
subtitle: Sunday thoughts
tags: [reflection]
comments: true
mathjax: true
author: Utsav
---

Missing someone that was in your life but now isnt is a normal thing. Finding your self worth in other people's actions is normal. Feeling miserable and choosing to stay in that moment is normal as well. You are normal. Always were. Always will be.

Emotions can not be segregated from your brain. Emotions exist for a reason. That does not mean your body is refusing to cooperative or run at an optimal speed. You keep breathing, you keep existing and emotions usually give way to clarity. But just like a transience of a wave, you need to ride it out before you can reach calmer waters. The ocean provides a lot of life lessons and as someone who wants to be a lifelong learner, I should know both metaphorically and literally to ride the ocean waves regardless of the mood the ocean is in. 

My journey till now feels like calm waters. I have had my ups and downs - but when I zoom out now, those feels like tiny ridges in an almost straight yet increasing sloped line. Having the privilege of describing my life as "smooth sailing" is something not everyone can say. The credit goes to my parents for being so kind, considerate and loving - just being there, every step of my life and helping me overcome my obstacles. When I see the way they look at me, I can see the pride they have in their eyes to be able to call me their son. I still feel so happy when my mom brags about my 12th grade physics marks to folks who are not even remotely interested in their son or his 12th grade marks. 

But when I see myself in the mirror, I see a tired person. I see someone who wants to push but doesnt have any direction. I see someone who has a lot of potential that is leaking as time slips by. I see someone who is still a bit conscious about how he looks and wants to retain this alleged beauty in him as the days goes by. I see a person who is smart but does superficial work not because he is incapable of putting in real effort but because he is too laid back to show he cares. He cares, he truly does but too often, he sees life passing him by. Like a river that can cut through stone with its persistence, these negative experiences happening due to the same repeated unchanged patterns is cutting through his self-confidence and forming deep crevices.

I don't want to call myself broken. I am not. I don't want to indulge is self pity as well. I just want my mind to be clear once in a while so that I can focus on whats important. Writing gives me that outlet to express myself without having to rant so much. It helps me free myself of all the garbage thoughts accumulated. I am not a cleanliness freak when it comes to my surroundings but I try to keep a clean mind.  Experience has taught me that the feeling of not being good enough comes and goes. It surfaces when you don't have a clear goal and it can be pushed away by doing everything other than working on yourself. 

There is a silver lining. Water will continue to flow. Leaves will be born but they will also shed and disappear from the face of the earth. People will keep coming and going from your life. Bonds will keep changing their configuration with time. 

Control is scarce - we cant even control what happens in our life. What we can control is our decisions, persistence and our actions. What we can control is having the least regrets as we sail through life. We will come across islands now and then but none of them can be called home. We all are wanderers drifting through space and time, trying to make our life meaningful in our own eyes. We will never be enough for even ourselves; let alone other people in our lives. 

Lets start being kind to ourselves. Lets recognise that Sisyphus story is actually not that sad and is characteristic of the lives we live today. He had to push the boulder up the mountain but once in a while, we all can take breaks - breathe and take in the surroundings and look back at how far we have come. We might lose sight of the boulder but it necessarily will not tumble all the way down. We will keep on getting chances to get it back up. We will have other people in our lives who will hold the boulder for sometime when we feel like heavy - either mentally or physically. We are not in this alone. The journey is what we will enjoy; the checkpoints is where we will celebrate and fellow Sisyphuses are the ones who will join in our celebrations. 
